Jun 10, 2011
Summer Movie Catch-up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i5OsJZtPxRE
https://twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/79209576540540929
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/221780154508342
https://www.redlettermedia.com/half-in-the-bag/half-in-the-bag-summer-movie-catch-up

["Half in the bag!"]
["Get this shit off my cabinet."]
Jay: What is this?
Mike: It's a sing-along, with Frank Woehrle.
Jay: Oh, my god.
Jay: He has the voice of an angel.
Jay: What are you doing with the Frank Woehrle tape?
Jay: Oh my...!
Mike: That's what I'm doing to the Frank Woehrle tape.
Jay: Who do you think you are with that hammer, MC Skat Kat?
Mike: No, I think I'm fucking Thor, the God of Thunder.
Mike: By the way, have you seen Couples Retreat?
Mike: It's a really funny movie.
Jay: You're gonna have a heart attack.
Mike: No, no, no.
Mike: This is a depressant.
Mike: This is a stimulant.
Mike: They negate each other.
Mike: It's actually good for your heart.
Jay: So, it's kind of like not drinking anything at all?
Mike: Yeah.
Mike: So, we just saw the movie Thor, which is a Marvel Comics feature, uh, starring Chris Hemsworth and Natalie Portman.
Mike: Um, it's about the mythical figure, Thor, the Norse god of thunder, who comes to earth after being banished from Eternia where he lives, uh, in a happy land with his dad and his mom.
Mike: And, uh, he falls in love with Natalie's ass and wants to pound her mound into infinity, which is the general plot of the film.
Mike: Would you not agree?
Jay: What movie did you see?
Mike: Jay, what did you think about Thor?
Jay: I enjoyed watching Thor.
Jay: I had a good time watching the movie.
Jay: Uh, the whole thing is very silly.
Jay: It reminded me of a sort of mid-budget eighties fantasy movie, like, uh, Masters of the Universe or Krull. 
Mike: I really liked Thor.
Mike: I was, um, thoroughly entertained by it.
Mike: Um, there were some problems, which I'll discuss, but, um, it, it is what it is.
Jay: Yes.
Mike: And that's kind of what category it falls in, into for me. 
Jay: Mm.
Mike: I really like the opening because it showed exactly, like, the world that Thor is used to.
Mike: And, of course, that lended itself perfectly to a handful of fish-out-of-water jokes, um, which work.
Mike: Um, there's just a few, just enough.
Jay: Yep.
Mike: They didn't push it too far.
Mike: Well, Thor is a bit of an arc.
Mike: You know, as a character, he starts off kind of, like, immature, brash...
Jay: Arrogant.
Mike: Arrogant, headstrong, etcetera, and, um, he wants to start, he wants to fight people, he wants to prove his worth, and, you know, and then, you know, he gains some wisdom over the film.
Mike: And I, I think that's all the movies about.
Jay: Yeah, it's very, very simple.
Mike: Yeah.
Mike: In regards to Masters of the Universe, there are two ways of doing these kind of movies: entirely in Thor's world, or entirely on earth, and they kind of kept going back and forth, and, and that, that was a little, like, oil and water to me.
Jay: Yeah, well, especially since the majority of things that are happening on earth are sort of, like, they feel like filler in this movie.
Mike: Yeah. 
Jay: Like, the--
Mike: Right.
Jay: Everything with Natalie Portman.
Jay: Like, the only reason she exists, the only reason she's in this movie is to be the generic love interest.
Mike: Pretty much.
Jay: And there's not much else to that, and, uh, yeah, it sort of just feels like, we need to put these things in, one, so people have something they can connect to...
Mike: Mm-hmm.
Jay: And, two, to, to pad out the movie.
Mike: Yeah, yeah.
Mike: I mean, Thor could have had a romance with a girl that was part of his warrior friends--
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: --tribe, or whatever.
Mike: So I found myself, like, oh, yeah, Anthony Hopkins is Laura's dad, and, and, oh, he's injured, and, uh, Loki is doing this thing, and then it's like, oh, back to Natalie Portman in the desert.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: What felt odd was when that robot came down to earth and started, like, blasting the town up.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: That felt, like, whenever something's in there, in a movie, it doesn't feel like completely natural to the story, and it's, like, we have to have a scene where, on earth, where action happens.
Jay: Yeah. we haven't had an action scene in 25 minutes!
Mike: Well, not, not just a time frame, but all the action in the movie, essentially, takes place in Thor's universe.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: And there's not a scene on earth where there's action.
Mike: And, and there's, it's not connectible.
Jay: Yeah, yeah.
Mike: Um, but, but a thing knocking the car out of its way with its arm is connectible to the audience.
Jay: Right.
Mike: And, and that also gets Natalie Portman involved, and it merges those two.
Mike: Um, which was fine. It's a cool action scene, but, um, it felt kind of unnecessary.
Jay: Yeah.
Jay: All the action scenes of this movie are fun.
Jay: They're very light-hearted. It doesn't feel like there's much at stake.
Jay: Like it's, it's a very, uh, there's not a lot of characters to really latch on to.
Jay: It's all very, sort of, it's like fluff.
Jay: This movie's fluff.
["So whoever holds this hammer shall possess the power of Thor."]
["Next?"]
Mike: I think, I think overall, though, we might be overanalyzing Thor.
Mike: Um, not just because it's called Thor. 
Jay: The movie is what it needs to be.
Mike: Pretty much, exactly. 
Jay: It's a Thor movie that's meant to set up another movie--
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: --is basically what it is.
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: One thing I don't understand about Kenneth Branagh's direction is the, the choice to have every blurred shot be a Dutch angle. 
Mike: The Dutch angle started to appear in the film halfway through towards the end.
Mike: I, I saw a lot. 
Jay: There's a lot in the first half, too. 
Mike: And, and, and it goes from the most insane shit in outer space to, like, car driving down desert road.
Mike: And so it seemed like, well, what do we do?
Mike: Bwaahp, turn the camera.
Mike: That'll make it, like, a comic book thing.
Mike: Like, it was really, like, why are they doing that?
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: And...
Jay: It's like someone that doesn't, which is probably the case with Kenneth Branagh, someone that doesn't know comic books, doesn't understand comic books, trying to make something that he thinks would look comic book-like. 
Mike: I don't know. 
Jay: I guess. 
Mike: I don't know.
Jay: There's more Dutch angles in this than the old Batman TV show, though.
Mike: No.
Mike: No.
Mike: That's an over-exaggeration for comic purposes. 
Jay: It was to the point where the Dutch angles were getting so out of control that it was already on a Dutch angle, and he tried to turn it to another Dutch angle, and the movie was sideways.
Mike: Mmm.
Jay: Half of this movie was completely sideways. 
Mike: Or perhaps it was on a Dutch angle and such a degree that it ended up being straight again.
Jay: So, you're saying that the shots in this movie that are straight were maybe an accident?
Mike: Every shot was a Dutch angle.
Mike: Except for the, the Dutch angle shots which, ironically, were not Dutch angle shots.
Jay: Wow. 
Mike: Because it had all come full circle. Those are straight shots.
Jay: I see. Okay.
Mike: Or maybe they just had a broken tripod.
Mike: So, to wrap up, I would recommend Thor.
Mike: Uh, I enjoyed it.
Mike: Um, and it had, you know, it had its moments.
Mike: It was fun, entertaining, uh, lots of good action.
Mike: And I don't want to sound like a simpleton or a moron, you know, like, it had lots of good action in it.
Mike: But, for a movie that's about Thor...uh, it is a movie about Thor.
Jay: Yes.
Mike: And, and you will enjoy it on that level. Um, it's not boring or horrible or stupid or pandering or, you know, a Michael Bay movie.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Uh, and it has Natalie Portman, and she has a pretty face.
Mike: And it's nice to look at her face.
Mike: And the ladies, you will like to look at Chris Hemsworth's perfectly cut abs and pectoral muscles.
Mike: When I watched the film, there were several, uh, groups of ladies in the theatre who had all come.
Mike: Middle-aged ladies, who were school teachers, um...
Jay: Not comic book fans.
Mike: Probably not comic book fans.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: But they were there for something. 
Jay: Do you think it could have been because of Stellan Skarsgård?
Mike: Oh, right.
Mike: Yeah.
Mike: Oh, totally.
Mike: I'm sorry, yeah.
Mike: Um, but, yeah, Thor...uh, see Thor if you want to.
Mike: I don't give a fuck.
Jay: I would also recommend Thor as maybe a lazy Sunday matinee movie.
Jay: It's not great, not bad, but it's very charmingly simple, and there's great comedic relief by Sir Anthony Hopkins.
["Reach with those outer thighs."]
["Up."]
["Down."]
["Up."]
["Down."]
["Relax your neck muscles."]
["Let the legs do the work."]
Mike: Yeah...
["No more saddlebags."]
["Here we go."]
["Down."]
["Up."]
["You've got it."]
["Lean your body weight slightly forward so you really feel it in the outer thighs."]
Jay: I don't even know who you are anymore.
Mike: What?
Jay: You realize we're watching a pregnancy workout video, right?
Mike: Yeah, I realize that.
Mike: It's fucking hot.
Mike: Hey, why'd you hit stop?
Mike: Ohhh.
Mike: Oh, ghtt...!
Mike: You asshole.
Mike: Fff-...wh-, wh-, what would you rather be watching, Joel Silverman's Hollywood Dog Training Program?
Jay: Is, is that a book?
Mike: It's a big VHS tape.
Jay: Oh, my god.
Mike: Oh. 
Jay: There's cassette tapes in there, too.
Mike: It's a whole program for Hollywood dog training.
Jay: Why does Plinkett have that?
Jay: He doesn't even own a dog. 
Mike: I don't know.
Jay: It looks unwatchable.
Mike: Speaking of unwatchable, have you seen The Hangover Part II?
["The population of Thailand is 63 million people."]
["It is twice the size of Wyoming."]
["None of you know Stu like I do."]
["I can't even tell you what I've been through because we made a pact."]
["What I can tell you is this."]
["This is not Stu's first marriage."]
["There was a whore in Las Vegas a couple of years--"]
["All right, all right, time's up, you need to sit down, bud."]
Jay: So, The Hangover 2 is The Hangover...again. 
Mike: Quite literally.
Jay: Yes.
Jay: Mike, what did you think of The Hangover Part II?
Mike: Um, amazingly bad. 
Jay: Okay.
Mike: Not, not, mmm... okay.
Mike: I'm going over the top.
Mike: It, it was watchable.
Mike: But boy oh boy, it was lazy. 
Jay: Well, comedy is very subjective, more so than maybe some other aspects, of other genres of film.
Jay: I don't know...
Mike: I guess so...
Jay: I, I, I'd, like I said, I understand why that movie was so popular.
Jay: I get it.
Jay: And I liked the concept of the movie.
Jay: I like the idea behind it. 
Mike: Oh, yeah.
Jay: When I, and I, I saw the movie long after it already had come out.
Jay: I didn't see it in the theatres.
Jay: And, uh, when I heard about it, it's like, oh, they, they got so drunk, they don't remember what happened the night before, and they have to find the groom. So they have to piece together all these elements.
Jay: I was expecting something just even a little bit more clever than what it was, where, when they finally realize where the groom was, it...nothing that they discovered throughout the, the rest of the movie, before that, had built towards that.
Mike: No, no. 
Jay: It was like a mystery, but the ending was like, oh, I guess he's over here. 
Mike: Right, right.
Jay: And it had nothing to do with anything. 
Mike: Yeah, one clue didn't lead to another that lead to another.
Jay: Yeah, it, it's...
Mike: At least the second one had that.
Jay: Well, that's what I was gonna say, is that the first one, it is very much just a series of, uh, comedy set pieces.
Mike: Right.
Jay: And that's pretty much it.
Jay: And, I will go on record as saying that, I kind of liked The Hangover Part II.
Jay: Uh, for a lot of the reasons that people that love the first Hangover probably will hate the movie, uh, which is that it wasn't as broad, it wasn't as crazy--
Mike: Uh-huh.
Jay: --and on a story level, it felt a little more cohesive.
Mike: Mm-hmm.
Jay: Uh, as far as the basic plot, it is, it is shockingly, uh, similar to the first one, and that is beat-for-beat, plot-point-for-plot-point, the exact same movie.
Mike: It's almost, like, intentional.
Jay: It's almost awe-inspiring how lazy they were being with the script.
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: Uh, but tonally, it's sort of different. 
Jay: It's much sleazier.
Mike: Very different.
Jay: It's sleazy, it's darker, and it's more uncomfortable.
Jay: And the theater I saw it in was just packed with people ready to laugh because they loved the first Hangover.
Jay: And most of the movie was lots of uncomfortable silences, and people shifting in their seats, and waiting for the hilarity to happen that never came.
["What the hell?"]
["Your hair is gone."]
["No."]
["Up."]
Jay: When I hear about an unnecessary sequel to a movie, I always have this running gag her I say, "Oh, no, it happened again!"
Jay: And that's one of the first lines of dialogue in this movie.
Jay: They actually say, it happened again!
Jay: And they say things like that throughout the movie.
["I can't believe this is happening again!"]
Mike: The one thing I was thinking about early on was how terrible the editing was.
Jay: Yes, yes.
Mike: It, it was just, like, cut, cut...
Jay It was jarring.
Mike: And then it was, like, The Hangover Part II.
Mike: Like, the title appears.
Mike: And it wasn't, there was no, like, energy. 
Jay: It was like, here.
Mike: Yeah.
Mike: Here.
Mike: And now, and then, the one thing that ran through my head was, Part II.
Mike: The Hangover Part II, as in, like, it's a continuation of a story, and it's not.
Jay: No.
Mike: It's like, it's...
Jay: It's the same story.
Mike: It's like a different flavor of ice cream.
Jay: Well, I, I guess people like the idea of the first movie, but also what they liked is the, the characters and the performances, because this is a group of talented people...
Mike: No, the, the, the actors are all very likeable.
Jay: All you need to do is take those characters and put them in a completely different scenario... 
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: And you might have something.
Mike: Maybe -- here's something crazy -- maybe it's not a wedding! 
Jay: Why does it have to be a wedding?
Mike: Oh, my god!
["Check your pockets."]
["There might be clues."]
["Ching Mei Monastery."]
["I don't remember any of this."]
["What is this, a P.F. Chang's?"]
Jay: Uh, and this movie played it as safe as it possibly could...
Mike: Right.
Jay: ...with the story.
Jay: Similar to, like, Home Alone 2, where it's the exact same movie in a different city.
Mike: Well, in Home Alone 2, he wasn't in the house again. 
Jay: He was in New York City.
Jay: He was in a different place.
Mike: So you're completely fucking wrong. 
Jay: Oh.
Mike: I mean, Home Alone 2 broke new ground.
Mike: It shattered conventions.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: I mean, this is a wedding, a bachelor party, and things, you know...
Jay: So you're saying it's even worse than Home Alone 2 in the story department. 
Mike: In Home Alone 2, if Kevin McCallister was still at the...oh, here's the, here's the twist.
Mike: Instead of going to Paris, the family is going to...London on their vacation.
Jay: Yes.
Mike: And, and Kevin gets trapped at home.
Mike: And Kevin McCallister...and then throughout the film, he sets up booby traps. 
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: But they're just slightly different.
Jay: Yeah. 
Mike: It's not the same exact booby traps.
Jay: Right.
["He had a sick knife, bitches."]
["Whoa."]
Mike: But, but sometimes when something's really bad, bad where word of mouth kills it...
Jay: Yeah. 
Mike: And I don't see how bad word, word of mouth could not have killed this.
Jay: Yeah, yeah.
Mike: Unless people are just like, I love the first one, I love the first one, I don't care what you say, I'm going to see this, I'm going to see this, and, and that just got their money.
Jay: And talking about this movie being tonally different than the first movie...
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: ...even though story-wise it's exactly the same, is that, in the first movie everybody reacts to everything, like, completely crazy, like, "Oh, my god, I can't believe we did this!"
Jay: And in this one, there's certain sequences that get really creepy and dark and uncomfortable, and the characters acts almost believable, like, as if this actually happened.
Mike: Yeah. 
Jay: Which takes away from the hilarity, which makes it not funny to the people that like the first movie.
Mike: Yes. 
Jay: Uh, but to me, that was sort of interesting to see them, them treat the material in a different context like that.
Jay: But there's long stretches of this movie where it's not even trying to be funny. 
Mike: Mm-hmm.
Jay: Where it's, it's almost just like a straight sort of mystery thriller movie.
Jay: And there's a car chase sequence in the movie that I actually thought was, was pretty well-executed.
Jay: I mean, do you, are you familiar at all with the director of this movie, Todd Phillips?
Mike: No.
Jay: You've seen the first Hangover.
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: He directed that.
Jay: He's always been a filmmaker that I've been intrigued by, even though I've never liked any of his movies.
Mike: What other movies?
Jay: He directed Road Trip.
Jay: Do you remember Road Trip?
Mike: Is that different than Boat Trip?
Jay: That's different than Boat Trip.
Jay: Road Trip is Tom Green.
Jay: That was his breakout movie.
Jay: He did that, he did...well, he did Due Date.
Mike: Oh, I love Due Date.
Jay: Yeah.
Jay: And every movie he does is like that, where it's like, I'm sort of baffled by the movie, but people seem to love them.
Jay: But his very first movie was a documentary about GG Allin.
Mike: Mm.
Jay: And then his second film was a documentary, kind of, about frat hazing.
Jay: And so he has this sort of, like, subversive dark, quality to him, and I keep expecting that to show up in these mainstream movies that he makes, but he always seems to be just sort of playing to the cheap seats with these Hollywood comedies.
Mike: Well, this was certainly not that.
Mike: The first Hangover, yes, but not this.
Jay: The first Hangover, and then that's, that's something I admired about this one, but at the same time, he alienated the audience that liked the first one.
Mike: Apparently not.
Jay: I, I, well, but...do you think people are going to see this movie because they've heard it's a great hilarious follow-up to the first one?
Mike: No.
Jay: They're going to see it because the first one was successful.
Mike: Yeah, yeah.
Mike: Pretty much.
["What the hell have y'all done?"
["To even have an opinion on what I've been doing?"]
["What the hell have y'all won?"]
Jay: It's not as blatant as, like, a sequel that I love, I don't think you care much for it, but I love Gremlins 2.
Jay: And Gremlins 2 is a very deliberate and obvious attempt to ridicule everything about the first movie, everything that made the first movie successful, and just be completely balls-out crazy.
Mike: That, that's a good point.
Jay: I don't know if that was what they were trying to do with The Hangover Part II or not.
Jay: Why can't you just make another story with these characters? 
Mike: Because the story is the fact they wake up drunk, and not remember anything.
Mike: It's not the story about the characters.
Jay: Well...
Mike: I mean, the characters are...
Jay: I, I'm saying if you want to do a sequel that was something different, that's what you can do, is make it not them waking up and not remembering the night before...
Mike: No.
Mike: No one would accept that.
Jay: Eh...
Mike: No one would accept, unless it had the same premise.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Or a similar premise, but--
Jay: But then you run into the problem that this movie does, where it is the same premise down to every sort of beat.
Mike: Right, but, but, what I'm saying, in addition to that is, even mild tweaks--
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: --could have fixed that. 
Jay: Mm-hmm.
Mike: Someone with just, you know, a fourth-grade education could have done that.
Mike: Like, like, like I suggested, the simple, simple premise: there is no wedding.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Why does there have to be another wedding?
Mike: Why does it have to be a bachelor party?
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Why...there's so many other events in life that have drinking and partying, that it didn't have to be a wedding.
Jay: Sure. 
Mike: So...and, and I have a fourth-grade education, and I thought of that.
Mike: How about they go to something that's not known for parties?
Mike: They go to a software convention in Cleveland, Ohio. 
Jay: Yeah. 
Mike: And things get crazy!
Mike: And, and, and there's a different premise right there.
Mike: So, The Hangover Part II.
Mike: Uh...no.
Jay: I wouldn't recommend it if you're looking for a good funny comedy.
Jay: If you're looking for a worthy follow-up to The Hangover, if you like the first one, I wouldn't recommend it for any of those reasons.
Jay: If you're looking to see a movie that is just, like, morbidly curious and how off-putting and wrong it is...
Mike: See, see, but that's you.
Jay: That's me.
Jay: hat's what I'm saying.
Mike: Mmm.
Mike: Don't go see this one.
Mike: No one wants to go watch a movie out of the morbid curiosity of how, how the, how they can watch the audience in the theater with them be disappointed. 
Jay: No.
Mike: People want to go to the movie to be entertained by it, and, and, whether it's an action movie, a drama, or comedy.
Jay: Sure.
Mike: So, you must withdraw your recommendation to see this movie on any level.
Jay: There must be other people out there like me. 
Mike: Because...
Jay: There must be, right?
Mike: There's no redeeming qualities in this movie--
Jay: No.
Mike: --that, that, that would give...think of it as a just the general audience.
Mike: There's no redeeming qualities in this movie that would make me recommend it to any demographic.
Mike: It's not funny.
Mike; There's a couple little chuckles here and there.
Mike: But it's not funny.
Mike: It's not...fuck this movie.
Mike: It's warping my mind.
Jay: Yes.
Mike: It was just a bad idea.
Jay: Yeah. 
Mike: All around.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Like, here's a sequel it'll be real funny.
Mike: They go to Bangkok. 
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: And all sorts of crazy disturbing shit happens, it'll be hilarious. 
Jay: Yeah. 
Mike: And it's not hilarious.
Mike: It's, it's kind of twisted and dark and kind of, like, okay, it's supposed to be funny. 
Jay: And twisted and dark can be funny.
Mike: Sure. 
Jay: In context.
Jay: Every, anything can be funny in context.
Jay: But this is a movie where I don't know what the context was supposed to be. 
Mike: Right.
Mikek: The context is not there--
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: --so you don't know what you're supposed to be laughing at, or what you're supposed to be disgusted by.
Jay: Yes. 
Mike: Um, and then there are scenes where the Buddhist monk is hitting them with a stick for ten minutes, and it's, becomes the Three Stooges.
Jay: Yeah.
Jay: Or a monkey is smoking a cigarette, and it's funny because monkeys don't smoke cigarettes.
Mike: And then, the scene before that, it's, it's a, it's a horrifyingly graphic description of how Ed Helms was fucked in the ass by a transvestite.
Jay: Yes. 
Mike: And that's like, that is, is buttressed against that, and you're like...
Jay: Yeah.
["Hey, guys."]
["Check it out."]
["Allen, cut it out."]
["When a monkey nibbles on a weenus, it's funny in any language."]
["Ever found a book that has everything"]
["From hidden treasures to battles and kings"]
["Suspense and excitement"]
["If that's what you need"]
["Have I got a book here"]
["That you've gotta read"]
["They call it The Good Book"]
["They call it The Word"]
["The greatest story"]
["That you've ever heard"]
["The incredible journey"]
["And all of it's true"]
["So pick up The Good Book"]
["It's waiting for you"]
Jay: Oh, and we also saw X-Men.
Mike: X-Men: First Class, of course, needs no introduction. As most of you have probably seen the other X-Men films or know what the X-Men are, and have probably been waiting to see this film for a while, as I have been. X-Men: First Class is essentially a prequel, um, because it takes place before all the other X-Men films, and tells the origin story of Charles Xavier and how he formed the X-Men, and more importantly his friendship with Erik Lehnsherr, who eventually becomes Magneto, which is the focal point of the story. Um, uh, Jay, what did you think about X-Men: First Class?
Jay: I enjoyed the movie for the most parts. Uh, yeah, the first half of the movie I would say I kind of loved. But then at a certain point, I noticed weird things started creeping into the movie that kept taking me out of it.
Mike: Like one frame of a pornographic film? No, but what things are you talking about?
Jay: Uh, well, there was certain things where, like, dialogue started to feel off and, uh, there was moments where the dialogue was very, like, hitting you over the head with its obviousness. Uh, and then, yeah, the final action scene that the whole movie was sort of building towards, because it's not a very, there's not a lot of action in the rest of the movie.
Mike: No. No.
Jay: Which I appreciated, because it's more focused on the characters. But when that action scene happens, it felt very awkwardly handled. Some of the shots were bizarre and, and, and comical, unintentionally comical. And then that whole sequence just went on way too long.
Mike: I liked X-Men: First Class. I did not love it. I kept hearing how, just awesome it was, and, and the trailer was perfect. I think it was a, just a classic case of high expectations...
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: ...being a little too high. And, um, and I think that was some of the problem. Maybe I'll appreciate it upon more viewings, because there was a lot going on in it, but, um...
Jay: And it's certainly not a bad movie.
Mike: No.
Jay: By any means.
Mike: Oh, no, no. Um, I, I enjoyed it quite a bit, um, but I had the same problems you did, where, um, I was thinking actually for the first, like, half an hour of it, I'm like, wow, you know, uh, idiots are gonna be really bored.
Jay: Yes, yes.
Mike: Because there's no, there's no big, like, action opening. It's very, it's very subtle.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: I, I, I thought the guy that played Charles Xavier, for me, stole the show.
Jay: James McAvoy.
Mike: Oh...good job. I have never heard of him before, but he did a great job playing Xavier.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: And it was nice to see Xavier as sort of, like, having a lot of youthful energy. 
Jay: It, it was fun to see him, like, hitting on ladies.
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: And using terms like groovy. Yeah. 
Mike: And things like that, yeah. I think that's what the earlier films are kind of lacking, was that, they're sort of established. Like, Xavier School for Gifted Youngsters. Xavier, Cyclops, you know, and, and, and there's no, like, humanity. 
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: And this one, Xavier was like, I'm...I'm Xavier! I'm excited about things!
Jay: Yeah. Well, and it's...
Mike: It's fun.
Jay: And it's interesting to see, like, him talk about how mutants should be out in the open and proud of themselves, but that's because he can't relate to the ones that have physical...
Mike: Yeah. 
Jay: ...uh, uh, elements that make them look different than other people.
Mike: Yeah. He was a bit, he was, he was a little naive...
Jay: Yes. 
Mike: ...about the things to come. 
Jay: The, the movie almost, uh, empathizes more with Magneto.
Mike: The main conflict in the movie is between those two, not necessarily Sebastian Shaw versus Magneto.
Jay: Right. And that's what drives the movie, and that's what I thought was pretty well done.
Mike: I will agree with you, yes, it was well done, um, and, and, and being that that's the core of the movie, that's what makes itwork for me. But the frustrating stuff comes from the details.
Jay: Mm-hmm.
Mike: There are shots in this movie that are so cheap-looking, it looks like, kind of like a comedy film. Like, like there's, there's the ending, as you know from the trailer, it takes place during the Cuban Missile Crisis, and the X-Men sort of intervene in this. And there's shots aboard a battleship, um, which are like, if you would imagine a comedy scene aboard a battleship, that's how you would shoot it. The bridge, the windows, almost like, almost like, uh, like a John Wayne movie from the 40's or the 50's, where it's just like, the bridge of the battleship.
Jay: Or like a Naked Gun movie.
Mike: Or like a Naked Gun movie, yeah.
Jay: With, specifically, the binoculars.
Mike: So, there's a shot where the captain has the binoculars. It's cliched, almost. And, and the camera's pushing in, and he lowers the binoculars, and it's Michael Ironside.
Jay: Because I, we saw it in the theatre, and I was, I started laughing.
Mike: I started laughing, too. 
Jay: And it was, like, cuz that whole thing feels like that's the punchline, like a Naked Gun movie where it's like, he lowers the binoculars, and it's like, of course it'd be Michael Ironside.
Mike: Right. Right.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: And, you know, some average moviegoer might not know, but I, I was expecting to see Leslie Nielsen when he lowered the thing. At one point, Michael Ironside goes, gentlemen, it's been an honor serving with you. And, and, and it's like, in this flat shot. If, if you know anything about--
Jay: Like a sitcom.
Mike: --filmmaking, specifically, flat shots at eye level are typically funny.
Jay: Yeah. They're used for comedic effect.
Mike: I don't know who directed this, but...
Jay: Matthew Vaughn!
Mike: And it's, like, right in the middle of all this dramatic tension between Magneto and Xavier.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Then it cuts, it keeps cutting to Michael Ironside, constantly.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Why are we cutting to him? 
Jay: Who is he? 
Mike: He's just the commander of one of the ships. We should have never seen anyone.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: On any of the ships, ever. Don't show them.
Jay: That's...yeah, yeah.
Mike: Ever. Just keep showing Xavier and boats in the water and, like, because the movie's about mutants trying to, like, mingle, intermingle with human affairs.
Jay: Yes.
Mike: Don't even show them. 
Jay: Sure.
Mike: They're like ants, you know, but they keep cutting back to Michael Ironside. What now? Should we hit the button, the nuclear button? In the first three X-Men movies, Xavier and Magneto was always kind of, like, this little thing that would crop up.
Jay: Yeah. 
Mike: And it was always The Wolverine Show.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: And, um, and to me, and I guess to most other people, X-Men is always Xavier versus Magneto.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Because it's two conflicting ideologies. And Xavier has his guys, Magneto has his guys, and the conflict in X-Men is do we side with humans or do we wipe them out?
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Are they our friends or are they our enemies? Or, or, or in a...a different way of saying it is, should we protect the ones that hate us? 
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: And that's the conflict in X-Men. And it's not Wolverine. Xavier and, and, and, and Magneto are the kings on the chessboard, and they're, all the other characters are the pawns. 
Jay: Sure.
Mike: And, and that's the story. And that's what this movie focused on.
Jay: Yes. 
Mike: And that's why it's good.
Jay: Right.
Mike: It's just the technical things that, that...
Jay: Sure. And some of the script things, because some of the dialogue in this movie...there's a certain, there, there's one scene in particular that, that completely -- I don't want say derailed the movie for me, but it definitely took me out of the movie to the point where I had trouble getting back into it, which is... 
Mike: Was it the scene where January Jones said anything? 
Jay: January Jones is terrible in this movie, but we'll get into that. Uh, there's... 
Mike: I would love to get into that. 
Jay: There's a scene in this movie where, uh, what's Beast's...?
Mike: Hank McCoy. 
Jay: There's a scene in this movie where Hank McCoy comes in with, like, this serum that will cure him and Raven/Mystique of their physical differences from humans, and every line of dialogue in that scene is awful. Like...like, laughably bad. And there's no scenes before that that were that bad, and it really took me out of the movie to the point where I thought, like, is this a reshoot? Like, did they do this because they didn't think that the point of the movie was coming across well enough, so they redid it? That scene onward is when I noticed problems starting to, to pop up.
Mike: Yeah, yeah.
Jay: Yeah. 
Mike: Uh, another thing that, that you bring up that sort of was hit-you-over-the-head-with-a-hammer was the parallel, especially in the third one, which a lot of people have discussed, was mutants as homosexuals, and that whole social message. Science fiction has always been more, like, respected, or more, um, you know, noteworthy if, while it's doing science fiction, it's making commentary on society or social issues.
Jay: Sure.
Mike: But, the core of X-Men is humans hate mutants, but mutants are good enough to want to protect humans.
Jay: Well, you can take that, and make it that blatant, where it's like, humans hate mutants.
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: And an individual viewer can apply anything they want to that.
Mike: Sure. It needs t... 
Jay: Racism, sexism, homophobia, whatever. Right. It doesn't need to be so specific where you have characters saying, like, mutant pride. 
Mike: Right. 
Jay: And it makes it too obvious.
Mike: The, the, the point of it is, humans have the capacity to hate something that's different.
Jay: Yes. 
Mike: It's all in the verbage, um, because Mystique says, mutant pride. Pride is associated with, with gay. Power is associated with, with domination, white power, black power, you know. Magneto, Magneto is, is, um, is mutant power. 
Jay: Yes.
Mike: He's, he's the militant. And, and, and Xavier is more of mutant rights. And rights are kind of like, more equality. Civil rights, like the civil rights movement. Um, gender rights, women's rights. I would have liked a little bit of the other elements in there, too. Do you know what I mean?
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: And he's like, well, they didn't ask, so I didn't tell. I was, like, ooh...
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: That's like saying shock and awe.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Like, shock and awe is clearly labeled towards Bush. Intolerant bigots hate gay people. 
Jay: Right.
Mike: No! Just leave it alone. Just have mutants fighting robots.
Jay: Just let 'em be mutants. No, I, I think the movie should exist on its own.
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: They're mutants. They're looked at as being weird and different. The end.
Mike: Because we get it without it.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: We get it without the hammer. 
Jay: All the performances are very good in the movie, aside from, uh, January Jones. 
Mike: She delivers her lines like she has no idea what movie she's in.
Jay: Yeah. Or, or what being a human being is like.
Mike: She's, she's really bad.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: And I haven't seen her in anything else, so I have no point of reference. But, oof, her, her lines are like nails on a chalkboard, like, wha-? Wow.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: There is no...it comes off, like, when a, when an athlete hosts Saturday Night Live.
Jay: Yes!
Mike: That sort of acting.
Jay: Yes, it's a good analogy.
Mike: Oh, and another thing we should, we should kind of talk about is, at, at some point I noticed that the movie felt a little, like, cheap, for being, like, a major X-Men movie, like some of the visual effects...
Jay: Yes. 
Mike: ...kind of were, like, questionable.
Jay: Some of the, some of the effects of the movie are, are like off-puttingly bad.
Mike: Sure. Ultimately, the movie is about the characters in the story, so the visual effects aren't important, but they shouldn't, kind of, distract you. It, it comes with some of the effects--not all...
Jay: No.
Mike: ...but some of the effects come off, like, kind of, like, sci-fi channel kind of CGI-looking.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Like, television quality. And, and I was expecting just, like, you know, top-of-the-line effects for an X-Men movie.
Jay: Sure.
Mike: And they're not really there.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Which is not a big concern, but it's noteworthy. 
Jay: It, it's one of those things, like I was saying halfway through the movie, there's certain little odd things that start to take you out of the movie.
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: And, when enough of those crop up, that's what sort of spoils the movie for you.
Mike: What's good about this movie, and, in comparison to, like, the third, third film, or the second film maybe, um, is the third film, a lot of the comments about it is that it's so cluttered with characters. 
Jay: Yes, it's a very muddled movie.
Mike: In this movie they, albeit briefly, they take the characters, and there's a kind of a fun training sequence...
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: ...where we learn, like, the characters can't really control their powers, and Xavier is starting to learn how to become a mentor...
Jay: Yes.
Mike: ...on training them with their powers. So you learn a little bit about each character, and what, what their limitations are...
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: ...and what their fears are, and stuff like that. And that pays off when they use their powers at the end.
Jay: Yeah. 
Mike: And that's all we needed from, like, a character like Banshee or Havoc.
Jay: Right.
Mike: It was just a little bit of introduction.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Banshee doesn't quite know what to do. Havoc can't control his powers. It's so great. And, uh, and then at the end they learn how to focus them in control.
Jay: Yeah, for a--
Mike: Nice and simple.
Jay: Yeah, for a movie that's this, sort of...cuz it's a long movie. It's a pretty long movie.
Mike: Yeah. 
Jay: So, for a movie that, in this length, and, and covers this much period of time, and this many characters, it's all balanced fairly well.
Mike: Right. 
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Right. Uh, I just wish it was more silly.
Jay: Wish it was more silly. 
Mike: X-Men should not be taken super seriously.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Magneto needs to go, it's the X-Men! Get them! And then they start fighting. The, the Hellfire Club have a secret submarine underneath the ship. And Kevin Bacon's there, and he's in the, he's in the Sebastian Shaw suit.
Jay: And he's wearing the helmet!
Mike: Yeah, and it's like, schlock, yes! And then it's like, don't you, shouldn't you be proud of the way you were born and...? No, no, no, stop! Giant robots. People going, look out! It's the X-Men! I wanna, I wanna...you know, like, one or the other.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: If you're gonna have Kevin Bacon and a secret submarine grabbing on to, to radioactive nuclear rods, you know, then go overboard.
Jay: Yeah. And don't cast Michael Ironside.
Mike: Don't put Michael Ironside in it.
Jay: Don't cast Michael Iron... 
Mike: Unless it's, unless it's McHale's Navy, starring Kelsey Grammer. Cuz it's a comic book movie. It's not a social commentary on, on the, the intolerance of people against homosexuality. It's a movie about people that fight each other with superpowers.
Jay: Yes, yes.
Mike: And it doesn't need to be anything more than that. So, um, I would have to of course recommend X-Men: First Class. I wouldn't recommend it to grandma, because grandma won't know what the fuck's going on. But, if you are a movie fan, if you're a comic book movie fan...
Jay: If you're an X-Men movie fan.
Mike: If you're any kind of movie fan, you should probably go see X-Men: First Class. Do you agree?
Jay: I would agree. I, I enjoyed the movie for the most part.
Mike: Of course!
Jay: It had lots of issues. It's not a perfect movie.
Mike: No.
Jay: It's not a great movie. It's not the best X-Men movie. But there's lots of good stuff in it. Lots of good performances.
Mike: Yeah. Lots of fun stuff.
Jay: Yeah, lots of fun stuff.
Mike: Yeah. Ah, good old Richard Simmons. I love his tapes.
Jay: Oh, yeah. Yeah.
Mike: He really helps out fatso's.
Jay: Oh, absolutely. They need all the help they can get. 
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: They're repugnant.
Mike: Well, it's like, once you go over a certain weight, you're no longer human. I mean, fatso's should be, should be chained and put in the zoo for all I care.
Jay: Yeah, yeah. Well, that's good, because Richard Simmons wants fatsos to avoid that kind of shame and ridicule. Make 'em lose weight so they don't look so repugnant.
Mike: Did you know Richard Simmons used to be a porker?
Jay: Really?
Mike: Mm-hmm. He was, like, 300 pounds.
Jay: Holy shit.
Mike: Um, yeah, cuz, you know, there's a lot of calories in semen. But Richard Simmons, you know, he really gives me a hard-on. Um, but, um, you know, he helps the fatso's, you know, lose the weight and feel good about themselves with these cookies. Oh, this is my favorite part of this tape.
Jay: You've seen this before?
Mike: Yeah. Of course. A lot of times. The tracking's off again. 
Jay: The tracking?
Mike: Mm-hmm. Yeah.
Jay: On the VCR? 
Mike: Yeah. There goes.
Jay: We've been watching VHS tapes all afternoon, so... 
Mike: Mm-hmm.
Jay: The VCR works.
Mike: Yeah, obviously. What's your point?
Jay: We're here to fix the VCR. It's supposed to be broken.
Mike: Oh, fuck. That's right.
Jay: I completely forgot. 
Mike: Why is it working? Oh, shit, you know what? I think I accidentally fixed it a couple weeks ago.
Jay: What?
Mike: I'm sorry, it was like second nature, you know, cuz I'm a VCR repairman. 
Jay: It just, yeah, I guess you did it without even thinking.
Mike: I was just on autopilot, pretending to fix it. Plinkett was over there, and I think I might have fixed it. Obviously, I did. 
Jay: Oh. What are we gonna do about this?
Mike: There's only one thing we can do. Hmm. Nah, that's too much work. Let's just unplug it.
